OSSM-8520 Document migration of network policies created by 2.x (#88728)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-migrating-network-policies-setup-during-migration.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * service-mesh-docs-main/migrating/checklists/ossm-migrating-network-policies.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ossm-migrating-network-policies-setup-during-migration_{context}"]

> = Set up network policies to be in place during migration
> 
> You can set up network policies to be in place during your migration.

Reviewer: Would this work?
```suggestion
= Set up network policies to use during migration

You can set up network policies use during your migration.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
During the recreation of network policies from {SMProduct} 2 to {SMProduct} 3, both control planes must have access to all workloads and vice versa.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have deployed {ocp-product-title} 4.14 or later.
* You are logged in to the {ocp-product-title} web console as a user with the cluster-admin role.
* You have the {SMProduct} {SMv2Version} Operator installed.
* You have the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` 2.6 resource installed.
* You have `spec.security.manageNetworkPolicy=true` in your {SMProduct} 2 `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource.

> * You have deployed the `bookinfo` and `bookinfo2` applications.

Reviewer 2: I think we can say here: You have a namespace with your application deployed, for this migration guide, we are going to use `bookinfo` and `bookinfo2` example namespace

[IMPORTANT]
====
The `maistra.io/member-of:` label is removed from the namespaces during migration.

> ====

Reviewer: Should this be connected to a prereq item? if not, seems it belongs above

.Procedure

. Label namespaces by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label namespace <app_namespace> service-mesh=enabled
----
+
[NOTE]
====
Use a label scoped specifically to your mesh that you can reuse for discovery selectors.
====

> . Create your network policies by using the following `NetworkPolicy` example configurations:

Reviewer: aha - seeing this in context, looks fine I think :nerd_face:

+
.Example of an Istiod network policy in a mesh namespace
[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: istiod-basic
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  ingress:
    - {}
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: istiod
      istio.io/rev: basic
  policyTypes:
    - Ingress
--
+
.Example of an expose route policy in a mesh namespace
[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: expose-route-basic
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      maistra.io/expose-route: "true"
  ingress:
    - from:
        - namespaceSelector:
            matchLabels:
              network.openshift.io/policy-group: ingress
  policyTypes:
    - Ingress
--
+
.Example of a default mesh network policy in a mesh namespace
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: istio-mesh
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  ingress:
    - from:
        - namespaceSelector:
            matchLabels:
              service-mesh: enabled
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
    - Ingress
----
+

> .Example expose route network policy in a httpbin-2 namespace

Reviewer 2: It said httpbin-2 namespace but the example yaml has bookinfo namespace

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: istio-expose-route
  namespace: bookinfo
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      maistra.io/expose-route: "true"
  ingress:
    - from:
        - namespaceSelector:
            matchLabels:
              network.openshift.io/policy-group: ingress
  policyTypes:
    - Ingress
--
+

> .Example mesh network policy in a httpbin-2 namespace

Reviewer 2: Same here it said httpbin-2 namespace but the yaml is for bookinfo namespace

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: istio-mesh
  namespace: bookinfo
spec:
  ingress:
    - from:
        - namespaceSelector:
            matchLabels:
              service-mesh: enabled
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
    - Ingress
--
+

> .Example expose route network policy iin a bookinfo2 namespace

Reviewer 3: iin --> in

> .Example expose route network policy iin a httpbin-3 namespace

Reviewer 2: Same here it said httpbin-3 namespace but the yaml is for bookinfo2 namespace

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: istio-expose-route
  namespace: bookinfo2
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      maistra.io/expose-route: "true"
  ingress:
    - from:
        - namespaceSelector:
            matchLabels:
              network.openshift.io/policy-group: ingress
  policyTypes:

--
+

> .Example mesh network policy in a httpbin-3 namespace

Reviewer 2: Same here it said httpbin-3 namespace but the yaml is for bookinfo2 namespace

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: istio-mesh
  namespace: bookinfo2
spec:
  ingress:
    - from:
        - namespaceSelector:
            matchLabels:
              service-mesh: enabled
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
    - Ingress
--

> . Disable network policies in {SMProduct} 2 by setting `spec.security.manageNetworkPolicy` to `false` in your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Disable network policies in {SMProduct} 2 by setting the `spec.security.manageNetworkPolicy` field to `false` in your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource.
```

+
[NOTE]
====

> Setting `spec.security.manageNetworkPolicy` to `false` in your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource removes the network policies created by default in {SMProduct} 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting the `spec.security.manageNetworkPolicy` field to `false` in your `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource removes the network policies created by default in {SMProduct} 2.
```

====

. Find your current active revision by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get istios <istio-name>
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME             REVISIONS   READY   IN USE   ACTIVE REVISION   STATUS    VERSION   AGE
istio-tenant-a   1           1       0        istio-tenant-a    Healthy   v1.24.3   30s
----

> . Copy the ACTIVE REVISION to use as your `istio.io/rev` label when creating your second Istiod network policy for {SMProduct} 3.

Reviewer 2: Copy the ACTIVE REVISION name*

> . Copy the ACTIVE REVISION name to use as your `istio.io/rev` label when creating your second Istiod network policy for {SMProduct} 3.

Author: The concern is if it underneath, users will miss it and the network policy migration will break which is likely to result in support tickets.

> . Copy the ACTIVE REVISION name from the output to use for your `istio.io/rev` label in your second Istiod network policy for {SMProduct} 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Copy the active revision name from the output to use for your `istio.io/rev` label in your second Istiod network policy for {SMProduct} 3.
```

. Create a second Istiod network policy for {SMProduct} 3 by using the following `NetworkPolicy` example configurations:
+

> .Example of a second Istiod network policy for {SMProduct} 3

Reviewer: You could use a short version here since it's just the one
```suggestion
.Sample policy
```
